When the apostle Paul was busy preaching
in the bustling city of Corinth,
the account at Acts 18:5 says
that “Paul began to be
intensely occupied with the word,”
or as the study note
in the New World Translation  puts it,
“fully absorbed in preaching the word.”
Those words well describe
the thousands of brothers and sisters
serving today as special pioneers.
Just like Paul,
they are “fully absorbed” in their ministry.
They spend about 100 hours
in service every month.
With limited time for secular work,
they receive a modest allowance
to help with their expenses.
Most of us are familiar
with regular and auxiliary pioneers.
Perhaps you serve as one.
But what makes
this special pioneer arrangement unique?
In this report,
let’s look at the important role
special pioneers have played
and continue to play
in supporting and expanding
the disciple-making work
and consider what we can do
to support these dear faithful ones.
The special pioneer arrangement
began more than 85 years ago.
At the 1937 convention in Columbus, Ohio,
Brother Rutherford explained that a group
of about 200 pioneers
were being chosen to serve
as special pioneers.
Their assignment
was to take the lead in using
one of the most powerful preaching tools
of the era—the portable phonograph.
Part of the prophecy shows
that the people of this day
who are of goodwill toward God
and who want to do right
will give heed to his warning
given by his Witnesses.
By this time,
brothers had been using phonographs
to play short Bible messages for a few years
but usually only after being invited
inside someone’s home.
The newly appointed special pioneers
were to spearhead
a new use of the phonograph,
presenting the recorded messages
right on the householder’s doorstep
after just a few words of introduction.
Before long, tens of thousands of phonographs
were in use in the field.
Special pioneers also took the lead
in following up with interested persons
and conducting Bible studies,
and they focused mainly
on preaching in big cities.
But within a few years,
the scope was expanded.
Their assignment would now include
remote territories.
As a result of the tireless work
of those intrepid special pioneers,
hundreds of new congregations were formed.
Today, that initial group
of 200 special pioneers
has grown to more than 27,000
and they continue to play
a key role in opening up
new territories all over the world.
Some who served faithfully
for many years at Bethel
or in other forms of special
full-time service, such as the circuit work,
are assigned as special pioneers.
Their experience and zeal
are a real benefit to their congregations.
Well, after serving
at Bethel for over 30 years,
Laurie and I received the call
from the branch office
that we were being reassigned
as special pioneers to the field.
And when we met with them,
it was a little emotional.
We knew there was a good possibility.
However, it was Jehovah’s direction.
We took a picture with them afterward.
We have that as a really nice memory aid
of the new chapter of our life.
When they moved in,
it seemed like they adopted
all the young ones in the congregation.
And in doing so,
they have actually improved their zeal
and participation in the ministry as well.
Jehovah is using us in a way that allows us
to be able to assist the congregation
and, at the same time, this congregation
is taking care
and strengthening and helping us.
And when we get the focus off of ourselves
and onto them
and to those that are in the field,
immediately Jehovah blesses us with joy.
They have taken that mindset
of working hard for Jehovah at Bethel
and now, really, transitioning
to working hard for Jehovah
in the Macedonia Congregation.
Do you have special pioneers
in your congregation or circuit?
If so, spend time with them.
Parents, help your young ones
come to know them.
All of us can let them know
how much we appreciate
their example of faith.
Special pioneers are willing
to serve wherever they are needed
in their own country or, in some cases,
in other lands.
So how does someone
become a special pioneer?
Well, in most cases,
it begins when a regular pioneer attends
the School for Kingdom Evangelizers.
Based on the needs of the field,
some graduates of the school
are appointed as temporary special pioneers
for up to three years.
Afterward, some might continue
as special pioneers
or be invited to serve as field missionaries.
When I first heard that I was assigned
as a temporary special pioneer,
I was shocked.
I was a little bit scared,
very overwhelmed, but mostly excited.
I’ve really enjoyed
being available for the friends
—being available for different service times,
for phone calls, or things like that.
It’s just really been nice to support
the congregation with more of my time.
I would call it the experience
that we never knew we wanted
because I never, never thought
that it could be a goal of ours.
We never thought we would do it.
We didn’t understand
or know too much about it.
Because it’s called special pioneering,
I think in our heads,
before we were like:
‘Oh, special people do that.
‘They’re just really incredible
at the ministry.
So that’s who special pioneer.’
So to get this assignment,
we realized, “Oh, regular people
can be special pioneers.”
So, really,
the School for Kingdom Evangelizers
has become an essential doorway
for those wanting to be used
more fully by Jehovah’s organization.
The School for Kingdom Evangelizers
was like a power station that gave us strength
to continue in our ministry.
The two months of training really helped me
to be more fluent in the “pure language.”
And I felt newfound strength
when I returned to preach
in the foreign-language field
after graduation.
Not only does it provide
you with the training,
but it helps you to be able to get
even closer to Jehovah,
more than you had ever imagined before.
Because it’s
the School for Kingdom Evangelizers,
we imagined we were
going to be practicing preaching every day,
but the school just helped us
with our relationship with Jehovah.
We felt so built up.
We would go anywhere.
Naturally, many would prefer to choose
their own assignment.
However, when we put ourselves
in Jehovah’s hands through his organization,
we receive valuable training
and find the best place to grow spiritually.
We feel great joy
in foreign-language service where we express
Jehovah’s love and goodness to foreigners
who have been through so much
in this tough world.
I am really happy
because although I am physically in Korea,
it feels like I’m doing missionary work.
I love my assignment very, very much.
There’s just a tremendous
amount of joy and blessings
that come about in serving others.
Special pioneering
is really the best life ever
—just to be able to give your all
to Jehovah in every way.
I’m excited to see where Jehovah
wants me next.
As we’ve just seen,
with many recent SKE graduates
being assigned to the work,
special pioneering isn’t out of reach
for young couples
or single ones—even those in their 20’s.
And there is a real need for more to serve
in this special capacity.
So you younger brothers and sisters,
could you set special pioneering as a goal?
It can give you the training
and experience you’ll need
to be more useful to Jehovah.
You would find it to be a wonderful career.
Of course, not all of us
can be special pioneers,
but we can support them and their efforts.
Their steadfastness, determination,
and zeal make them a real treasure.
To all of our special pioneers,
we echo the words of the apostle Paul
to the Thessalonians when he wrote:
“We continually remember your faithful work,
your loving labor, and your endurance.”